{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The data shared here are a repository from my doctoral dissertation, 
\f1\i Dual-language immersion schooling and the acquisition of the Spanish subjunctive in Spanish heritage bilinguals
\f0\i0  from Rutgers University (Ph.D. awarded 5/2023). I hold copyright to this unpublished dissertation, which is available to the public at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rucore.libraries.rutgers.edu/rutgers-lib/70382/"}}{\fldrslt https://rucore.libraries.rutgers.edu/rutgers-lib/70382/}} . The dissertation includes full-length transcripts of the tasks used for the present project at the end of the document in the appendices.\
\
Note that only the children\'92s data concerning the acquisition of the subjunctive are included in the dissertation. However, there are also data concerning the use of DOM and nominalized infinitives as part of this project. Adult heritage speakers and second language learners also participated, but their results were not included in the initial dissertation.\
\
The articles published from this body of work represent unique combinations of participant groups and structures (e.g., DOM development across the lifespan, comparisons of adult heritage speakers versus L2 learners in multiple areas of grammar, the effects of education on the acquisition of subjunctive). Due to copyright restrictions, only those articles that are available open access are shared here. The articles published in 
\f1\i Bilingualism: Language and Cognition
\f0\i0  and in 
\f1\i Languages
\f0\i0  from this dataset are available to the public within the Manuscripts subfolder.\
\
In the spirit of open science and collaboration, I encourage researchers to reproduce my findings and to use them for future projects. Possible collaborations stand to improve the analytical tools available for heritage speakers. However, I reserve all rights to these data and require authorship on future publications involving them. If these data are utilized for the purposes of publication without my inclusion as an author, I reserve the right to make this repository private and to pursue the appropriate legal protections.}